The next thing we're gonna work
on is skinning an audio player.
And there is a lot of work to do
where audio players are a concern,
you may already know that you can play
audio directly inside of your browser and
you can use an audio
HTML element to do it.
In fact If you just drop a MP3 URL
inside of your web browser window,
you'll see an audio player there,
it works just great.
We have a little play button,
it'll play whatever it is, and
it'll have volume associated with it.
Now, this is Chrome,
if we take a look at other styles,
this is how it looks here in Firefox,
looks like that kind of
completely different.
And if we look at it in Safari,
it looks even more different [LAUGH].
Okay, and that's because this is
the browser's default styling for
all of these various
kinds of audio elements.
It may or
may not work with your page design.
So, normally what developers
will do is they'll build
their own audio component for
their webpage.
Now, and use a little JavaScript
by the way to power it.
So, we could go through that
whole process, and honestly,
it'd probably be a whole course by itself.
So instead,
we're gonna cheat just a little bit.
I am pointing you to this
great CSS tricks article,
about how to create a custom audio player.
And if you go through this entire course,
it will explain everything to you,
explains to, you the various
elements of your audio player,
it explains the JavaScript API.
It explains how to lay things out.
And we wind up with,
after a very long article,
we wind up with a final code pen,
which I have forked for you.
And, we have this audio player.
So if you go into, we're still
at practical CSS education.
And we are in chapter 4, and
we are down at 4D, the audio player.
There are links to To
that CSS Tricks article,
the article describing how that
audio player was created and
our starting code pen,
which is right here, okay.
So, already everything is in place,
this is the HTML that comes from
CSS Tricks, there it all is.
This is their CSS,
all of this stuff here that we forked in.
And we have all of the JavaScript
that's down here required to make
this thing work, so let us talk.
We're gonna start by,
coming up with a plan.
We have, this was the way the audio player
looks, the one that we are starting with.
This is what we want it to look
like when we're done, [LAUGH] okay.
So we have a little bit of
changing to do here, don't we?
So, can anybody start to identify?
What are the kinds of things that
we need to think about as we make
a change to this particular player.
What do we need to think about,
what do we need to change?
>> Positioning the elements.
>> The positioning of the elements
obviously not quite right,
you were gonna say?
>> We need to bring in the track and
the track number.
>> We have a track and a track number,
that is not there on audio player -ish.
>> [LAUGH] right What else?
>> Colors.
>> The colors are completely wrong,
we need to swap that around.
There's a lot of things to consider here.
If you take a look here
inside of our code,
you take a look inside of the JavaScript.
The thing we don't wanna do is we don't
wanna break the functionality of our audio
player, right?
Because this works [LAUGH] and
that's a really wonderful thing.
So, we wanna be sure to keep it working.
[LAUGH] And in order to keep it working,
we need to make sure that we don't change
elements, that are called for
here inside of our JavaScript, right?
So our JavaScript has got things like
getElementById, playIcon, getElementById,
audio player container, getElementById,
volume slider, mute icon, right?
So that stuff we need to be sure
to leave alone in our HTML,
because otherwise we'll break
our JavaScript make sense, okay.
So, that is always what I start with here,
what can't I change in
the skinning process?
And it looks like this
particular JavaScript author
relied a lot on get element by ID,
which is nice.
Because that gives us a little bit
more freedom with our classes, right?
Okay, the other thing is, where do the
icons come from, anytime you take a look
at something like this, we need to figure
out where those icons are coming from.
And if you take a look, actually
it's right here in the JavaScript,
it says it's importing this
thing called LottieWeb.
And LottieWeb happens to be an icon
library with animated icons,
so that is where our
icons are coming from.
So we don't wanna break that either
[LAUGH] so, there is our HTML.
And this is always a good place to start,
right?
I've told you this throughout the course,
we wanna start by looking at our HTML and
starting to make some modifications,
that then we can work with for
styling purposes.
And o again, when we're trying
not to break the JavaScript,
it's often easy enough to
add containers to this.
So we can group elements here
with like divs, and so forth.
But removing elements tends to be tricky,
if we remove elements,
we may break things all together, right?
Make sense,
everybody clear on our approach here?